Iambic Pentameter:

But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks? 
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.


Her vestal livery is but sick and green
And none but fools do wear it; cast it off. 


And I do love thee: therefore, go with me; 
I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee, 
And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep, 
And sing while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep; 


Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious summer by this sun of York; 
And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.  


Henceforth be earls, the first that ever Scotland
In such an honour named. What's more to do, 
Which would be planted newly with the time, 
As calling home our exiled friends abroad
That fled the snares of watchful tyranny; 
Producing forth the cruel ministers
Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen, 
Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
Took off her life; this, and what needful else
That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace, 
We will perform in measure, time and place: 
So, thanks to all at once and to each one, 
Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone. 


That thou her maid art far more fair than she: 
Be not her maid, since she is envious; 


O that this too too solid flesh would melt, 
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew! 
Or that the Everlasting had not fix’d
His canon ’gainst self-slaughter! O God! O God! 


Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon, 
Who is already sick and pale with grief, 


If music be the food of love, play on; 
Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting, 
The appetite may sicken, and so die. 
That strain again! it had a dying fall: 
O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound, 
That breathes upon a bank of violets, 
Stealing and giving odour! Enough; no more: 
'Tis not so sweet now as it was before. 


Whan that aprill with his shoures soote
The droghte of march hath perced to the roote,
And bathed every veyne in swich licour
Of which vertu engendred is the flour;
Whan zephirus eek with his sweete breeth
Inspired hath in every holt and heeth
Tendre croppes, and the yonge sonne
Hath in the ram his halve cours yronne,
And smale foweles maken melodye,
That slepen al the nyght with open ye



Thanne longen folk to goon on pilgrimages,
And palmeres for to seken straunge strondes,
To ferne halwes, kowthe in sondry londes;
And specially from every shires ende
Of Engelond, to Caunterbury they wende,
The hooly blisful martir for to seke
That hem hath holpen, whan that they were seeke. 


Hello, my friend. What are you doing here?
If you would put the key inside the lock
Can you come over here to eat tonight?
O spirit of love! how quick and fresh art thou, 
That, notwithstanding thy capacity
Receiveth as the sea, nought enters there, 
Of what validity and pitch soe'er, 
But falls into abatement and low price, 
Even in a minute: so full of shapes is fancy
That it alone is high fantastical.  


Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date: 


Batter my heart three-personed God, for you
as yet but knock, breathe, shine and seek to mend.
That I may rise and stand o'erthrow me and bend
Your force to break, blow, burn and make me new. 


Of Man's first disobedience, and the fruit
Of that forbidden tree whose mortal taste
Brought death into the World, and all our woe,
With loss of Eden, till one greater Man
Restore us, and regain the blissful seat,
Sing, Heavenly Muse, that, on the secret top
Of Oreb, or of Sinai, didst inspire
That shepherd who first taught the chosen seed
In the beginning how the heavens and earth
Rose out of Chaos: or, if Sion hill
Delight thee more, and Siloa's brook that flowed
Fast by the oracle of God, I thence
Invoke thy aid to my adventurous song,
That with no middle flight intends to soar. 

